docs: mobile app profiling metrics (#7660)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/profiling/mobile-app-profiling/metrics.mdx

---
title: Metrics
sidebar_order: 50
redirect_from:
  - /profiling/mobile-app-profiling/metrics/
description: "Measurements taken by the Sentry profiler that help us contextualize the work your mobile app does and detect possible issues impacting performance."
---

The Sentry profiler records several system measurements to help analyze the backtraces it gathers. Some like CPU and heap usage are taken on a regular sampling interval using functions from `mach/mach.h`, albeit with a lower frequency than backtrace sampling. Others, like GPU information, are taken from `CADisplayLink` callback invocations as they're received.

## CPU Usage

Every 100 ms, the amount of CPU used by the app process, as a scaled percentage of total CPU capacity (which varies depending on the number of cores) is measured. The value is calculated using `thread_info` with `THREAD_BASIC_INFO`, which returns a CPU usage value per thread, and summing the values for all threads.

## Heap Usage

Every 100 ms, the amount of heap memory used by the application is recorded using `task_info` with `TASK_VM_INFO`.

## GPU Information

> Previously, Sentry counted the number of [slow and frozen UI frame renders](/product/performance/mobile-vitals/#slow-and-frozen-frames) for Mobile Vitals. This implementation has been expanded to record the timestamp for every such frame, so we can overlay this information over profiling flame charts:
> 
> ![Sentry displays slow/frozen frames above the flamechart of a particular profile.](flamechart-with-gpu-overlay.png)
> 
> The profiler records the current frame rate when it starts, as well as any time it changes, like when a user puts their device into low-power mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to counting the number of [slow and frozen UI frame renders](/product/performance/mobile-vitals/#slow-and-frozen-frames) for Mobile Vitals, Sentry now records the timestamp for every frame and overlays it on top of profiling flame charts:

![Sentry displays slow/frozen frames above the flamechart of a particular profile.](flamechart-with-gpu-overlay.png)

The profiler records the current frame rate upon start, and then any time it changes, (for example if a user puts their device into low-power mode).
```
I'm sure you're aware, but it looks like the image is missing ;p

## Energy Usage

> Every 100 ms, the amount of energy expended by CPU work allocated to the app process since the previous sample is calculated using `task_info` with `TASK_POWER_INFO_V2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The amount of energy expended by CPU work allocated to the app process is calculated every 100 ms using `task_info` with `TASK_POWER_INFO_V2`.
```
Let me know if this doesn't make sense if we drop 'since the previous sample'.
